And long distance telephones.
And on Sunday morning, I went with my daddy to put out the newspapers at the Y. And when we got there, somebody told us that the Japanese had struck Pearl Harbor.
And I remember how upset my daddy was.
I wasn't sure exactly what it meant, but I knew my daddy was very upset.
And do you remember any activities later in the day?
No, I don't remember anything else that happened.
Not that day.
I remember that the A&M class volunteered in mass shortly thereafter, but I really don't remember anything other than us going to the Y that day.
Now, was that after church?
No, this was before church.
Before church.
Yeah.
Let's digress on to religious activities.
Describe as you
as much as you can, the activities that the Y coordinated before the war.
What all happened at the Y?
Well, the Y had a series of things.
First of all, the Indian Presbyterian Church met in the Y, and since we were members of that congregation, well, we went to that all the time.
But the Y also coordinated the religious activities on the campus.
It did a lot of things as far as new students were concerned.
The Y sent out a packet to all incoming freshmen with the so-called fish handbook with a card that they indicated their religious preferences and when those cards came back they always separated them and gave those cards to the various churches.
The Y operated what they call Religious Emphasis Week, which they would bring in a series of speakers for various reasons for a week-long program.
The main one was held in Guyon Hall, and then they would have meetings or services every night with different people.
And the Y also coordinated and operated the theater and the assembly hall across the street.
I guess those are the main things.
Was your dad a Texas A&M employee or an employee of the YMCA?
No, he was an employee of A&M.
In those days, the Y was basically everything that academics weren't.
It was the MSC, it was the intramural office, it was the student activities office.
It was basically everything that didn't involve class work in the early days.
Let's see.
Yale practice was held.
On the steps of the Y. What about muster?
Was muster held before the war?
I don't know the answer to that.
Silver taps?
Silver taps was held.
at the bugle stand right outside the Y or the academic building.
Let's see, do you remember, before the war, do you remember any kind of arguments over something the Y did or failed to do?
One of the things that the Y did that Daddy was very involved in was the foreign students.
There were a good many foreign students who began to come to A&M and there really wasn't any, there was nothing set up to handle them.
The Y set up an organization called the Cosmopolitan Club.
And the Cosmopolitan Club basically was all the foreign students that had come to A&M for whatever reason.
And about that time, we began to get a good many students from places like India and Pakistan and places like that.
And they had their own club, which was sponsored by the Y. Were there other nationalities?
Latin American?
Yes.
Where?
Which nations?
A good many people from Mexico and a good many people from several of the South American countries.
Yes, but I don't think there were a good many Japanese that were here.
I don't remember many Chinese particularly, but there were a good many Japanese here prior to the war.
But did anybody ever accuse the Y of doing something that was inappropriate or failing to do something?
I don't ever remember anything about it.
No Jewish, Christian, no liberal, conservative?
No, I don't remember any of that.
It could have been.
Were there ever any arguments over a formal denomination like the Presbyterians meeting on campus?
No, there was.
I don't know it.
What other groups met on the campus regularly?
Well, you had a Union Sunday School.
The Union Sunday School was made up of basically all the churches.
As I recall, the Hillel Foundation met there in its early years.
That's about the only one I think of.
Were there any Jewish faculty members?
Yes.
Any key names you remember in those early years?
I can think of a couple of people, but I can't tell you what their names were.
As far as I have been able to listen to others recollect, I have not run across any memories of antagonism and to turn it around in a positive way.
that apparently there was respect for other people's beliefs and backgrounds and so forth?
I think so.
I don't ever remember.
I can remember Daddy getting into some disagreements or something about whether or not certain things ought to be done, but that always seemed very minor.
Daddy was always one that was involved in all different faiths because of his role at the Y. And I know that some of his best friends were some of the priests that were in Bryan as far as the Catholic Church was concerned.
But I really don't remember any controversy over that sort of thing.
As far as you recall, he administratively, he reported to whom?
He would have reported to the dean of men up that chain.
Who probably, who, at about the time the war started?
It wouldn't have been Colonel Andy.
I don't know.
I expect during that time he would probably reported to Dr. Walton as much as anybody.
Describe Dr. Walton.
Dr. Walton was a very distinguished, slow speaking, and from what I understand, very sympathetic person.
I mean, I know of cases where Dr. Walton would administer discipline
that was different from what was recommended on the basis that he had a feel for that person and basically telling them don't do that again or you're gonna be gone, but overriding other people.
had a great interest in A&M and wanted A&M to grow very much.
And he and Mrs. Walton were very distinguished people, quite proper, and very elegant in their mannerisms.
On that point, what were the social activities that faculty and staff professionals?
Well, the thing I remember more than anything else is we used to have
parties and things at the house, particularly for the students.
My mother and daddy had a three gallon ice cream freezer and we used to crank that up during the hot weather all the time and have meetings there.
I remember mom and daddy going to things such as domino parties and 42 parties.
I really don't remember
many social activities for the faculty.
Other than that, except all of the student, particularly in the spring, the ring dance and all of the senior ball and all that kind of stuff, because I used to go stand and watch all the girls and the guys go into Cebiza for the dance.
Did your parents house some of the young ladies?
Yes, they did.
Do you have any idea?
No, but it seemed like there was always somebody staying at our house.
As these social events were going on, these dances and so forth, how were the young ladies treated by Aggie students?
Well, I think they were always treated very well.
I really had a problem with that growing up.
Because I never saw a girl that wasn't escorted by somebody.
And the idea of a girl walking down the street by herself, I guess bothered me way late in my life.
I thought you were supposed to be escorted because I had never seen one that wasn't escorted.
And socially, that really caused me a problem.
I've heard a number of the
Men say that, as far as they know, the women were treated almost like visiting royalty.
Yes, I think so.
I mean, it was... There weren't enough dates to go around so that there were many of the guys cutting in on each other to dance with as many of the girls as possible.
Right.
Now, the dances and so forth were almost always in Sebisa.
Yes.
Did your father and mother have any responsibility for those?
No, I don't remember anything particular that they ever had to do with those dances, other than the fact that there was somebody always staying at the house.
Now let's chat about the Presbyterian Church.
As early as your memory goes, was the church organized?
Yes, it was organized.
Mr. Anderson was the minister, as long as I can remember.
For Sunday school, my earliest memory, we met in the assembly hall.
And we also met in the basement of Guyon Hall.
And as I said, that was a union Sunday school.
And we met in the chapel at the Y for Sunday morning service.
And then we also had a junior league
in the community that met there on Sunday evening.
Was that interdenominational?
Yes.
Who were some of the key Presbyterian colleagues?
Well, the Paynes, the, let me think of names.
I used to be head of accounting, Lelands.
Gammon.
Dr. Gammon and Mrs. Gammon and the boys.
Sam Ray and whoever the other one's name was.
Any of the administrators?
The Hickerson's.
Let me think.
Walter Manning.
Dr. John, John, John, what was his last name?
I'm drawing a blank.
Luther Jones.
Quisenberry.
I don't like to think of.
Did you college station, or excuse me, did you college Presbyterians associate much with the Bryan Presbyterian Church?
I don't ever remember associating at all.
I have not heard of any of those.
No, I don't ever remember.
Now at the North Gate, what other churches were there before World War II?
The Baptist Church was there.
The Methodist Church was there.
The Catholic Church was there.
I think that's it.
I don't know whether the Church of Christ was or not.
I don't know when they were organized.
All right, now back to family.
Your dad serves as Y Director until when?
He retired July the 1st, 1952.
1952.
But you all moved off campus.
In 1952.
39, 40, something like that.
Probably moved off in 1941.
We probably stayed up on the campus two years while they were moving that out.
Right.
And your mom does not take the responsibilities over at the board house?
Until 1952.
Oh, okay.
Okay.
So you're in junior high during World War II.
Your brother's away.
Let's go back and...
would you please describe your recollection of those great football games in 39 and 40?
Yeah, I went down there and I sold some peanuts.
I also remember going to a few of the games early.
There used to be a
what they call the Knothole Gang, that could sit in the horseshoe, and we paid 25 cents for a ticket.
And I went to a few of those games.
But I don't remember, as a little bitty youngster, going to many football games.
But by 38 and 39.
I was beginning to go to some of them.
Did you have a hero?
Yeah, I was always, one of the things I always enjoyed was the prompt and circumstance of the football game.
In those days, people dressed up, and they had the special trains that came in there, and Baylor would bring their bear, and they'd tie the bear up by the Aggieland Inn, and I remember going as a little kid,
because that bear would pop soda bottles and drink soda pop.
But it was always fun to watch the bears.
And for some reason to me, the special trains always fascinated me.
But they used to run special trains from Houston and Waco and Dallas to come in for a football game and they'd sit there and then they'd get back on them and ride back home.
Were you at all acquainted with Coach Norton during that era?
Yes.
I knew of him.
I knew who he was.
I think I remember talking to him.
What kind of personality did he have?
Well, as I remember, Coach Norton was a pretty stern fellow, but always pretty friendly.
I don't remember too much about that.
Did you have any heroes in the national championship squad?
Yeah, one of the people that Jitterbug Henderson always fascinated me and so did Papa Wesson.
I thought he was the biggest guy I ever saw.
Yeah, I don't remember what he was.
Papa Wesson was a guard or a tackle, I think.
We used to go to more baseball games.
really than football games because we could get into baseball games after school and we'd go and eat peanuts and sit in those old green bleachers that were there and watch baseball games.
Colonel Andy was the?
Colonel Andy was the track coach.
Oh no, the track coach.
Who coached baseball then?
In those days it was probably Marty Corot.
And the Aggies were good in all the sports then?
Pretty good in all the sports, yeah, pretty good.
Do you remember any kind of special events in any of the athletic, there weren't any rainstorms, there weren't any bleachers collapsing?
No, I don't remember anything of that type.
The only real bad weather I remember, I guess, would have been 19...
To tell you the truth, I don't know if it was 47 or 57 when A&M played TCU.
It was the only game I ever remember that you absolutely could not buy a ticket.
I mean, there were no tickets anywhere.
And as a hurricane came in, Bryan Field was going full blast, and they called all the people out that worked at Bryan Field.
It rained so hard you couldn't see.
And they had a very controversial call about whether TCU scored or not.
But anyway, A&M beat them 76.
So that was probably a tropical hurricane.
Yeah.
So as a youngster, you didn't have an acquaintance with John Kimbrough or?
Not really.
I knew a good many of the students at the Y.
There was a guy by the name of David Thrift who was the president of the student body in 1939.
I remember some of the people that had peanut concessions and I knew some of those people, but I really wasn't that involved with the A&M athletes.
All right, as the war is over, let's see, do you remember back up just a few months?
Do you remember your hearing that President Roosevelt had died?
Yes, I do.
Where?
My brother was at Fort Hood and Temple, and I remember somebody telling us that President Roosevelt had died, and I was in school at the time, and I just remember that it was just kind of like a haze went over the
whole school, because most of us, that's the only president we'd ever known.
I was in the shower after eighth grade spring football, and a kid yelled in the shower that that had happened and snickered.
And we said, hey, that's not a funny joke.
And he said, no, it's not a joke.
And when I got home, I realized I put on my clothes without drying off.
I was so touched with it.
Then when the war was over, your brother gets back home.
Brother Jim, I went to Korea.
about the time the war was over and came back about two years after that.
Oh, so he didn't get home right after that?
No.
And you're now getting up near high school graduation.
Describe how the campus changed as all these veterans came back.
Well, there was a lot of argument about what to do with the veterans.
Big fights I remember is they took Walton Hall and converted it into apartments for married students.
And they put some clotheslines at the back inside that view for them to use.
And the battalion championed for a whole semester that they shouldn't be allowed to hang unmentionables on a clothesline at A&M.
And that kind of started the fuss and the fight.
And then the veterans, the veterans first came back, they didn't really get very much involved in A&M.
And then shortly after that, they began to get more involved in the politics and the organizations and everything else.
And then there was a lot of resentment.
The Corps had a veterans unit.
and there was a lot of resentment between it and the Corps.
But all that began to fade away a little bit, and about that time they began to build some new buildings and do a lot of construction.
And there were trailers and hutments everywhere?
There were trailers and shacks and other things all over the place.
And your dad's responsibilities
I guess, became larger.
Well, they did to some degree, except that other things began to happen.
The Intramural Department was formed in the meantime.
The Dean of Students, or Dean of Men as it was called originally, was now in place.
And a lot of the roles that the Y used to have began to be moved
to other units, and the role of the Y began to diminish about that time.
All right, and then Wayne Stark was hired, and was it clear to everyone when he was hired that this was to create what is now the Memorial Student Center?
Yes, I think it was clear when Wayne was hired, but I don't think that anyone or anyone that I knew
particularly knew exactly what the MSC was to become compared to some other things that happened, and of course many of the functions of the Y were absorbed by the Memorial Student Center.
As far as you're aware, what administrator made that decision regarding?
I don't know the answer to that.
Was your dad comfortable with
he's getting close to retirement.
Was he comfortable with this newcomer coming?
I think so.
I think that as far as I know, Daddy and Wayne got along fine.
Daddy saw it as an expanded role of what was happening.
I don't think any of us at that point, Daddy might have, but I never heard it discussed, really interpreted that to be the expansion of a new
role as far as A&M was concerned, a new type of student if you will.
Nobody took it that way.
Do you have any idea who it was that identified Wayne Stark to be selected for that?
No.
I do not know.
Now you graduated from high school?
49.
Spring of 49.
And describe the A&M consolidated high school.
Well, they had about 150 students in the high school.
The superintendent was Les Richardson.
A little sidelight on that, I went out to the Cupper Awards at the business school the other day where they honored Gordon Bethune.
and introduced myself, and he said, oh, I know all about you.
And I said, why do you say that?
And he said, well, my father-in-law was Les Richardson, which caught me by surprise.
I didn't know that.
The high school was small.
It was beginning to grow, but we were a Class B school.
We couldn't play Hearn, Madisonville, Navasota, or Caldwell because they were all too big for us.
So who was in the district?
Centerville, Iowa, Centerville, Somerville.
Who else did we play?
Love Lady.
Was there a rival?
Yeah, I think the big rival probably was Love Lady.
And Calvert, Calvert was in the district.
Well, they weren't in the district.
We played Calvert for the bi-district one year.
And your varsity sports were what?
Football, basketball, baseball.
And you played what positions?
Quarterback, catcher, and guard.
Catcher?
Let me give you a Doak Walker story.
His senior year in high school, the Highland Park Scotty catcher got hurt.
The baseball coach needed a catcher badly, and the only athlete he thought was skillful enough to learn catching almost overnight was young Doak Walker.
And he goes to talk to Doak's father, who was the associate superintendent of schools in Dallas in the DISD, who, by the way, had
had known your dad real well at Austin College.
And according to a story I heard, Dr. Walker told this coach, look, you're in charge, and if you think it'd be best for him to play catcher, fine.
If he's willing to do that, that's fine.
You're the head coach.
And as they get to the door, Dr. Walker puts his arm around this man and said, and besides, if he's fool enough to put on that gear and kneel behind the batter,
He ought to be a catcher.
I remember Doak Walker coming to our house when he was solicited is not the right word.
Recruited?
Recruited by A&M.
Oh, really?
Yeah, and Doak came and spent the night at our house.
Oh, describe your memory.
Oh, I thought, you know, that he must be something wonderful because I remember sitting in the kitchen.
while mom and daddy talked to Doak and some other people were there, but I don't remember who it was.
I just remember he was there at the house.
What kind of personality did he seem to have?
Oh, he was a very enjoyable guy.
Pleasant?
Yeah, very pleasant.
Courteous?
Very pleasant, very courteous.
Physically?
He's a great athlete.
No, but size?
Small.
What, 5'8", 5'9"?
I'd say he's maybe a little taller than that, but basically small.
Because for me, he was the hero of all heroes.
Oh, I have to agree.
Football.
All right, in those years, in your senior year at high school, how did you all do in athletics?
We won the baseball championship.
We won district in football.
And I think we were second in basketball.
But in class B, that's as far as you can go.
So that was the end of it.
Who were your key teammates?
Sonny Pruitt.
Johnny Cooley, Homer Lamont, Lamar McNew, Dickie Dowell, Dick Birdwall was the manager.
Let's see, who else?